In her book [[The Vampire Lestat]], [[Anne Rice]] give us a set of a few vampiric laws when [[Armand]] (the [[vampire]] that transforms [[Lestat]]) gets the "laws" by his creator [[Santino]]

1. Each congregation must have its leader and only they can authorize given the Dark Gifts to a mortal, taking care to observe that the methods and rituals are executed adequately
2. The Dark Gifts never can be given to crippled, maimed, or children, or to those who even given the Dark Powers can't survive by themselves. It should be understood that all the mortals that get the Dark Gifts must possess great physical beauty, making the offence to [[God]] even bigger
3. An old vampire should never share their Gift, so the initiated's blood doesn't get too strong. Because all of the Gifts increase by time, and the old ones have too much strength to be passed forward. Wounds, burns - those catastrophes, if don't destroy the [[Satan]]'s Spawn, only wiill increase their power after they heal. Even so, Satan protects the herd agains the elder, because almost every, no exception, go mad.
	- Armand knows that there is no vampire older than 300yo, none of the ones he is with remember the first "roman congregation" (where the laws were defined) - "the devil called, frequently, their vampires back home"
	- Nobody knew the effects of sharing the Gifts until it is done. So they should avoid giving it to people with too much, or too little, passion or domable
4. No vampire can harm another, only the congregation master has power over life and death over their herd. And, besides this, they must drive the old and mad to the fire when they can no longer serve Satan as they should. It's their duty destroy all vampires that were not created adequately, and those who cannot fend for themselves anymore due to their wounds. And, at least, it's their duty to seek to destroy all those who break this rules.
5. No vampire can ever show their true nature, or the history of vampires, to a human and allow they to keep alive. No vampire can write, or leave it in written form, anything that contains true information about the kind. The vampire's name should not be known to mortals beside their lapid, and a vampire should never revels their, or any other vampire's, refuge

After this Armand gets to know about the Children of the Millenia, vampires who are older that those rules, and therefore don't care about them.